For more information, please see the official docs at
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/boto3/latest/

Contributing Code
-----------------
A good pull request:

-  Is clear.
-  Works across all supported versions of Python.
-  Follows the existing style of the code base (see Codestyle section).
-  Has comments included as needed.

-  A test case that demonstrates the previous flaw that now passes with
   the included patch, or demonstrates the newly added feature.
-  If it adds/changes a public API, it must also include documentation
   for those changes.
-  Must be appropriately licensed (Apache 2.0).

Reporting An Issue/Feature
--------------------------
First, check to see if there's an existing issue/pull request for the
bug/feature. All issues are at
https://github.com/boto/boto3/issues and pull reqs are at
https://github.com/boto/boto3/pulls.

If there isn't an existing issue there, please file an issue. The
ideal report includes:

-  A description of the problem/suggestion.
-  How to recreate the bug.
-  If relevant, including the versions of your:

   -  Python interpreter
   -  Boto3
   -  Optionally of the other dependencies involved (e.g. Botocore)

-  If possible, create a pull request with a (failing) test case
   demonstrating what's wrong. This makes the process for fixing bugs
   quicker & gets issues resolved sooner.

Codestyle
---------
This project uses `ruff <https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff>`__ to enforce
codestyle requirements. We've codified this process using a tool called
`pre-commit <https://pre-commit.com/>`__. pre-commit allows us to specify a
config file with all tools required for code linting, and surfaces either a
git commit hook, or single command, for enforcing these.

To validate your PR prior to publishing, you can use the following
`installation guide <https://pre-commit.com/#install>`__ to setup pre-commit.

If you don't want to use the git commit hook, you can run the below command
to automatically perform the codestyle validation:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ pre-commit run

This will automatically perform simple updates (such as white space clean up)
and provide a list of any failing checks. After these are addressed,
you can commit the changes prior to publishing the PR.
These checks are also included in our CI setup under the "Lint" workflow which
will provide output on Github for anything missed locally.

Automated Tools
---------------
The use of AI tooling for assisted development work is accepted and encouraged
in this repository, but due to the volume of sumissions we ask that you observe
the following rules:

- All issue and pull request submissions to this repository that are sourced by
  AI must first be reviewed by a human before submitting to the repository.
  Items reviewed in this way must include a statement like "generated by AI
  tools, and reviewed by <person>"
- Please ensure that your submissions are actually improvements. While we are
  grateful for any proposed fixes, even if they are very small, behavior that
  looks like creating nuisance PRs or artificially inflating submission counts
  is not acceptable.
- We may close issues or pull requests, or limit your ability to interact with
  this repository, for behavior that in our estimation violates these rules or
  any of the other rules in this repository's
  `Code of Conduct <CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md>`.
